# Copyright (C) 2004-2007, The Perl Foundation.
# $Id$

=pod

=head1 NAME

docs/configure/files.pod - Files created by Parrot configuration system

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document is intended to be a supplement to F<docs/configuration.pod>
describing the various types of files which are created by the Parrot
configuration process.  As currently structured, that configuration process is executed by running
F<Configure.pl>.  Above and beyond the files that are part of a checkout from
the Parrot repository or a Parrot tarball, what files are created during
configuration and are therefore available at the point you invoke F<make>?

Since the exact list of files created during configuration depends on the
options with which you run F<Configure.pl>, the content of that list will vary
from user to user.  Hence, no listing of those files can be considered
definitive, exhaustive or exclusive.  What follows is an attempt to give
Parrot hackers a good idea of the flavor of files created during
configuration.

=head1 METHODOLOGY

Simple:  Do a F<make realclean> and an F<svn update>.  Using F<find>,
F<File::Find>, F<ack> or similar technology, make a list of all files found
underneath the top-level Parrot directory, excluding version-control related
files and any files you yourself have created.  Run F<Configure.pl> with
whatever options you usually do.  Make a second list.  Use CPAN module
F<List::Compare> to identify those files found only in the second list.  Those
are the files created by Parrot configuration.

=head1 ANALYSIS OF FILES CREATED DURING CONFIGURATION

In a more-or-less standard run of F<Configure.pl> on May 20, 2007, 90 new
files were created.  They fell into the following (possibly overlapping)
categories.

=head2 Makefiles

44 Makefiles were created.

=over 4

=item * Overall Parrot Makefile

    ./Makefile

=item * Makefiles for compilers

    ./compilers/bcg/Makefile
    ./compilers/json/Makefile
    ./compilers/past-pm/Makefile
    ./compilers/past/Makefile
    ./compilers/pge/Makefile
    ./compilers/pirc/Makefile
    ./compilers/tge/Makefile

=item * Miscellaneous Makefiles

    ./docs/Makefile
    ./editor/Makefile
    ./ext/Makefile
    ./src/dynoplibs/Makefile
    ./src/dynpmc/Makefile

=item * Makefiles for individual languages

    ./languages/APL/Makefile
    ./languages/HQ9plus/Makefile
    ./languages/Makefile
    ./languages/WMLScript/Makefile
    ./languages/Zcode/Makefile
    ./languages/abc/Makefile
    ./languages/amber/Makefile
    ./languages/befunge/Makefile
    ./languages/bf/Makefile
    ./languages/c99/Makefile
    ./languages/cardinal/Makefile
    ./languages/cola/Makefile
    ./languages/ecmascript/Makefile
    ./languages/forth/Makefile
    ./languages/jako/Makefile
    ./languages/lisp/Makefile
    ./languages/lua/Makefile
    ./languages/m4/Makefile
    ./languages/ook/Makefile
    ./languages/parrot_compiler/Makefile
    ./languages/perl6/Makefile
    ./languages/pheme/Makefile
    ./languages/plumhead/Makefile
    ./languages/pugs/Makefile
    ./languages/punie/Makefile
    ./languages/regex/Makefile
    ./languages/scheme/Makefile
    ./languages/tap/Makefile
    ./languages/tcl/Makefile
    ./languages/tcl/examples/Makefile
    ./languages/urm/Makefile

=back

=head2 C Header Files

7 C header files were created.

    ./include/parrot/config.h
    ./include/parrot/core_pmcs.h
    ./include/parrot/feature.h
    ./include/parrot/has_header.h
    ./include/parrot/platform.h
    ./include/parrot/platform_interface.h
    ./include/parrot/vtable.h

=head2 C Source Files

2 C source files were created.

./src/core_pmcs.c
./src/platform.c

=head2 PASM Files

30 F<.pasm> files were created, all but 1 of them in
F<runtime/parrot/include>.

    ./config_lib.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/call_bits.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/cclass.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/cloneflags.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/datatypes.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/errors.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/except_severity.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/except_types.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/iglobals.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/interpcores.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/interpdebug.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/interpflags.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/interpinfo.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/interptrace.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/io_thr_msg.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/iotypes.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/iterator.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/longopt.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/mmd.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/pmcinfo.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/pmctypes.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/signal.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/stat.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/stdio.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/stringinfo.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/sysinfo.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/timer.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/tm.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/vtable_methods.pasm
    ./runtime/parrot/include/warnings.pasm

=head2 Executable Perl Programs

2 executable Perl 5 programs were created, both under F<tools/build/>.

    ./tools/build/dynoplibs.pl
    ./tools/build/dynpmc.pl

=head2 Perl Modules

2 Perl 5 modules were created, both under F<lib/Parrot/>.

    ./lib/Parrot/Config/Generated.pm
    ./lib/Parrot/PMC.pm

=head2 Other Files

These other files were created during configuration.

    ./CFLAGS
    ./myconfig
    ./parrot.pc

=head1 AUTHOR

James E Keenan (jkeenan@cpan.org)

=head1 SEE ALSO

F<Configure.pl>, F<docs/configuration.pod>.

=cut
