=head1 The JVM Metadata To PIR Translator

The JVM classfile layout is not as complicated as a .NET assembly.
There is a single .class file and a collection of .class files zipped to a 
hierarchy inside a jar container. 
The jar metadata is stored in the META-INF subdirectory, which 
usually contains the MANIFEST.MF file

Much data about Java and .NET classes along with their fields and methods are
stored in tables, collectively known as metadata, outside of the instruction
stream. A number of PMCs (documented in L<pmcs.pod>) are used to access this
metadata.

=head2 Interface

This subsystem represents itself as a single sub that takes a single parameter,
the filename of the class or jar file with JVM metadata inside it that needs to
be translated. It returns the PIR of the translated file. The sub is simply
named "jvm_to_pir".

  pir = jvm_to_pir(filename)

This is contained in the file "src/translator.pir".

=head2 Guts

This section describes the internals of the metadata translator.

=head3 Flow

=head4 Assemblies, Classes, Fields and Methods

                   +----------------------------+
                   |          jvm_to_pir        |
                   |       (translator.pir)     |
                   +------------||--------------+
                                ||
                               _||_
                               \  /
                   +------------\/--------------+
                   |         trans_class        |
                   |       (translator.pir)     |
                   +------------||--------------+
                                ||
                 ==================================
                ||                                ||
               _||_                              _||_
               \  /                              \  /
      +---------\/-----------+          +---------\/-----------+
      |     trans_field      |          |     trans_method     |
      |   (translator.pir)   |          |     (method.pir)     |
      +----------------------+          +---------||-----------+
                                                  ||
                                                 _||_
                                                 \  /
                                                  \/
                                               See below

=head4 Method Translation Details

                             See above
                                ||
                               _||_
                               \  /
                   +------------\/--------------+
                   |         trans_method       |---------|\ Instruction
                   |         (method.pir)       |---------|/ Translator
                   +------------||--------------+
                                ||
                 ==================================
                ||                                ||
               _||_                              _||_
               \  /                              \  /
      +---------\/-----------+          +---------\/-----------+
      | trans_method_params  |          | trans_method_locals  |
      |     (method.pir)     |          |     (method.pir)     |
      +---------||-----------+          +---------||-----------+
                ||                                ||
               _||_                              _||_
               \  /                              \  /
      +---------\/-----------+          +---------\/-----------+
      |    get_signature_    |          |    get_signature_    |
      |   RetType_or_Param   |          |        Local         |
      |    (signature.pir)   |          |    (signature.pir)   |
      +----------------------+          +----------------------+

=head3 Files

The translator source consists of a number of PIR files.

=head4 translator.pir

This contains the main C<jvm_to_pir> sub that initiates the translation process.
It also contains C<translate_class>, which drives translation of a Java class, and
C<translate_field>, which translates a field.

=head4 method.pir

This contains routines related to translating methods along with their local
variables and parameters. The sub C<translate_method> drives this, using a couple
of utility functions. It also makes use of signature translation routines in
F<signature.pir>.

=head4 signature.pir

This contains routines that parse parts of signature blobs and build some simple
data structures out of them.

=cut

# Local Variables:
#   fill-column:78
# End:
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
